Docker Notes
---------------

Virtualization: 

Is a technic where we can run multiple parallel programs in single machine where each program isolated with help of Hypervisor software (which reponsible for talking to host machine in providing the hardware resources to multiple virtual machines running top of Hypervisor).

Advantages:

1. Effectively utilize the underlying hardware resources.
2. If host machine is compromised with security, no impact on  virtual machine 
3. We can reduce the cost of infrastructure in building, deploying and delevering the application by reusing the same computer in running multiple applications.
4. Each VM runs on own OS independent of host OS. So that we can easily deploy and run application on different OS env.
5. More suitable for deploying and running the application that are long running process.

Disadvatages:
1. Virualation machine images conatains OS , so heavey weight and consumes more resources, not portable.
2. rebooting takes time, so scalability is tough
3. CI/CD difficult to achieve as virual machine images are heavy weight so it not easy to carry to diffenet environments.

Best utilization:

creating and providing dedicate computer env to different users where each env is isolated from each other. ex: Cloud provider can effectively use virtualization technique in sharing underlying resources of computers by creating dedicated computer env for multiple users.

Contanarization:

Is a technology where we can package application along with dependent libraries, libs/bins (through which contaner communicates with docker tools which intern talks with host OS in providing resources ) together and can run within container which is isolated from another applicaitonn running  in same machine.

Advantages:
1. Container images /container are light weight as no OS installed and comes with libs/bins through which communicates with docker engine which intern communicates with host OS in sharing the hardware resources with all contanes running on the machine
2. light weight , we can port differnt computers and we can achive CI/CD
3.bootstrap quickly , so can achieve scalablity of application quickly
4. patching and upgradation is very easy

Best Utilization:

Abstract the delivery of SF application.The developer upon building the software application, he package the sofware application with corresponding libraries and instructions to run it in containerized image and delivers it. 
The devops engineer or qa or enduser irrespective of the technology application is build, they can quickly run the software application out of the containerized image we delivered.
 
Standardize the workflow of the delivering and running the application as contaner images are light weight and we can achive CI/CD.

Containarization technologies:

1. docker
2. redhat openshift
3. mesosphere
4. microsoft container








